AWS Clean Rooms provides a secure and compliant framework for multi-party data collaboration—enabling partners to analyze shared insights without exposing raw datasets. By defining granular analysis rules (Aggregation, List, or Custom), organizations can precisely control what data is used, how it is joined, and what results can be returned. This architecture balances analytical flexibility with privacy preservation, making it especially valuable in regulated industries such as advertising, retail, and healthcare.

From a cost and scalability perspective, Clean Rooms’ compute-based pricing (CRPU-hours) offers predictable, usage-driven costs that scale with query complexity and duration, rather than total data volume. Combined with features like Differential Privacy, Cryptographic Computing, and AWS Clean Rooms ML, it supports both compliance and innovation.

Overall, AWS Clean Rooms is a mature and practical solution for cross-organization analytics, providing the right mix of data security, transparency, and operational control. With careful rule design, governance enforcement, and cost monitoring, enterprises can unlock valuable joint insights while maintaining strict data-sharing boundaries and regulatory trust.



Pricing is based on compute capacity, measured in CRPU-hours (Clean Rooms Processing Units) on a per-second basis, with a 60-second minimum charge. 
Amazon Web Services, Inc.
+2
noise.getoto.net
+2

Standard Spark SQL compute cost in US East (N. Virginia) is ~US$2.00 per CRPU-hour. 
Amazon Web Services, Inc.

Enabling Differential Privacy adds an additional cost, making the total ~US$4.00 per CRPU-hour ($2.00 compute + $2.00 DP add-on). 
Amazon Web Services, Inc.

Example: if you use the default engine (32 CRPUs) and run a query for 0.1 hours (6 minutes):

Capacity used = 32 × 0.1 = 3.2 CRPU-hours

Cost = 3.2 × $2.00 = $6.40 for the job (without DP).

Free Tier: New customers receive 9 CRPU-hours per month for the first 12 months (when using list or aggregation rules only). 
Amazon Web Services, Inc.
+1

Additional pricing dimensions beyond query compute:

ML custom modeling: charged per million records processed + compute (CRPU-hours) + ML instance fees. 
Amazon Web Services, Inc.

Lookalike modeling: charged per 1,000 profiles generated. 
Amazon Web Services, Inc.

Storage costs (e.g., S3) and data transfer are separate and follow standard AWS rates; Clean Rooms compute charge is independent of data scanned volume. 
AWS Documentation

Tips to optimize cost:

Choose minimal CRPU configuration that meets performance needs.

Keep job run time short (e.g., <10 minutes where possible).

Use Free Tier where initial experiments allow (<9 CRPU-hours/month).

Track and attribute billing by collaborator member to avoid unexpected cost shifts.



AWS Clean Rooms enables multiple parties to collaborate on shared analyses without exchanging or exposing raw data. Each participant controls their data through analysis rules, which dictate what kinds of queries can run. Two of the most common rule types are Aggregation and List. Aggregation rules permit only summary statistics such as COUNT, SUM, or AVG, protecting privacy by preventing row-level access. List rules, by contrast, allow row-level output but only for the intersection of records between collaborators—useful for matched audience or customer overlap scenarios.

Aggregation Use Cases
Aggregation rules support secure measurement and campaign analysis where results must remain anonymized. Queries can group by approved dimensions (for example, country or device_type) and must meet minimum-threshold constraints (like k-anonymity ≥ 100 users per cell). Example:

SELECT country, COUNT(DISTINCT user_id) AS users, AVG(sessions) AS avg_sessions
FROM partnerA a JOIN partnerB b ON a.hashed_email=b.hashed_email
GROUP BY country;


This pattern allows partners to measure reach or frequency safely without exposing individual identifiers.

List Use Cases and Governance
List rules are used when the output must include matched identifiers—for example, building activation audiences or running joint CRM programs. They explicitly restrict which join columns (e.g., hashed email) and output fields are permitted. AWS Clean Rooms automatically enforces these constraints, logs every query, and can apply Differential Privacy or Cryptographic Computing to add noise or keep data encrypted during computation. Together, Aggregation and List rules provide a controllable balance between analytic flexibility and privacy protection across multi-party collaborations.
